# World-Bank-Corpus-Analysis
Text analysis of World Bank Annual Reports Corpus

Every year, the World Bank publishes an annual report that explores the challenges encountered by developing nations and what it is doing to help people help themselves. From its inception in 1944 until present day, its mission statement has shifted from the rebuilding of Europe towards fostering international development. In a way, these annual reports are mirrors that reflect the reality of their time and shine a light on the advancement of international develop- ment and the progress of developing nations. Yet, it is questionable if these reports could offer any real insights at all. Criticisms have been drawn from both within and outside of the organization on the unnecessarily complex and im- penetrable language that is utilized in these reports, making them inaccessible to the very audience they are intended to serve.

As Jonathan Lancaster (New Yorker, 2014) eloquently expounded: “The language of money is a powerful tool, and it is also a tool of power. Incomprehension is a form of consent. If we allow ourselves not to understand this language, we are signing off on the way the world works today.” The World Bank Annual Reports are important, but it is even more important that these reports can be read, understood and processed by those they could bring the most value.

This paper, therefore, seeks to comprehend the linguis- tic sophistication of the World Bank Annual Reports. It will build upon the works done by Franco Moretti et al (2015) which has established that an overtly sophisticated and codified Bankspeak semantic permeates these reports. The research will focus on exploring the complexity of language used in these publications from 2013 up until now and investigate whether such systematic complexity still exists within their writing and communication of ideas.
